---
layout:     post   				   
title:      J2EE笔记 				
subtitle:   
date:       2018-12-03				
author:     Fortune					
header-img: img/post-bg-iOS0.jpg 	
catalog: true 					
tags:								
    - J2EE
---

# 1. Java EE Overview

## 2018.12.5

## 1. Enterprise application

Need for distributed, transactional, portable applications

Enterprise application provides the **business logic** for an enterprise.

1. They are always centrally managed and often interact with other enterprise software.
2. In the world of information technology, Enterprise Application must be **designed, built and produced** for **less money, with greater speed and with fewer resources**.



## 2. Programming Model

A simplified programming model

1. more <u>annotations</u> and less XML configuration.
2. <u>Dependency injection</u> can be applied to all resources needed by a component, effectively <u>hiding the creation and lookup of resources</u> from application code.



## 3. Java EE Application Model

1. The Java EE application model begins with the java programming language and JVM

2. The proven portability, security and developer productivity they provided forms the basis of the application model.

3. The Java EE application model defines an **architecture** for implementing services as **multitier applications** that deliver scalability, accessibility and manageability needed by enterprise-level application.

   The model partitions the work needed to implement a multitier service into the 	following parts

   1. The business and presentation logic to be implemented by the developer
   2. the standard system services provided by the Java EE platform.

4. The Java EE platform uses a **distributed** multitiered application model for enterprise applications. 
5. Application logic is divided into components according to function, and the **application components** that make up a Java EE application are **installed on various machines**, depending on the **tier** in the multitiered **Java EE environment** to which the application component belongs.



## 4. Multitiered Application 

1. Client-tier components run on the client machine
2. Web-tier components run on the Java EE server
3. Business-tier components run on Java EE server
4. Enterprise information system(EIS)-tier software runs on the EIS server

> 一般,J2EE应用程序被认为是三层体系结构的,因为它们主要分布在三个地方. 客户端,服务器端,数据库或者是后台的遗留层.





## 5. Security

1. The Java EE constraints to be defined at **deployment time**
2. The Java EE platform provides **standard declarative access control rules** that are defined by developer and interpreted when deploying.
3. Provide standard login mechanism -- No need to implement mechanisms like RBAC
4. The same application works in a variety of security environments without changing the source code.

## 6. Components

> A Java EE component is a self-contained functional software unit that is assembled into a Java EE application with its related classed and files that communicates with other components.

### 1. Defined Components

1. J2EE Clients

   Web Client；Applets；Application Client；Java Bean组件(the Java bean Component Architecture)

2. Web Components

   Servlet；Web Page（JSP）

3. Business Components

   EJB(enterprise beans) are components run on the server

### 2. Clients

两类客户端的区别：

1. Web client：
   1. 动态Web页面包含各种类型的动态语言
   2. Web客户端有时被称 -- 瘦客户机
   3. 从网络层接受到的网页可以包含一个嵌入式程序
2. Application client
   1. 为用户提供了处理需要一个功能比标记语言更丰富的用户界面任务的方法
   2. 通常有一个由Swing或AWT API实现的图形用户界面
   3. 应用程序客户端直接访问运行在业务层的企业Bean

### 3. JavaBeans Component

1. The JavaBeans Component Architecture
   1. The server and client tiers might also include components **based on the JavaBeans component architecture** (JavaBeans components) to **manage the data flow between an application client or applet and components** running on the Java EE server, or between server components and a database.
   2. JavaBeans components are **not considered Java EE components** by the Java EE specification.

### 4. Web Component

1. Java EE web components are either servlets or web pages created using Java Server Faces technology and/or JSP technology (JSP pages).
2. **might include a JavaBeans** component to manage the user input and send that input to enterprise beans running in the business tier for processing

### 5. Business Components

1. Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) components (enterprise beans) are business components that run on the server.
2. Business code, which is logic that solves or meets the needs of a particular business domain such as banking, retail, or finance, is handled by enterprise beans running in either the business tier or the web tier.

